 Hi Claude. The root of this repo is directoey wut4. It is located
 at /Users/jeff/go/src/github.com/gmofishsauce/wut4/ on my machine.

 You can read wut4/lang/README.md for context on the YAPL programming
 languag and read wut4/specs/wut4arch.pdf for a description of the
 target machine.

My goal here is to write a bootstrap loader that can load a program
from the SD card. The loaded program would be an operating system.

Writing this loader has proven to be a challenging problem. There
are critical constraints:

1. The entire loader, including all code and static data but not
its stack, must fit in one physical page (4096 bytes). Good news:
the computer is in privileged mode when the program begins execution
and it can remain in privileged mode when the loader chains to the
operating system.  The loader can change the operating system by
jumping to virtual zero (the system reset vector). Bad news: the
Loader begins execution at virtual zero. So it must relocate itself,
first, in order to put the operating system at that virtual address.

2. The loader must not only physically load the operating system
from The SD card, it must also set up the kernel code and data MMU
registers so that the loaded operating system can execute. In the
WUT-4 there is no DMA or other I/O to physical addresses, so pages
must always be mapped into virtual space before they are loaded
from the SD card programmatically. It probably makes the most sense
To do this at increasing addresses rather than reading from the
card into a buffer So that the data does not have to be copied after
being read.

So the loader needs something like the MapPage function
(wut4/lib/mmu.{inc,yapl}) and also the code from wut4/lib/nio.{inc,yapl}.

BUT:

3. I have already proven, by other experiments, that simply linking
these libraries to a main function results in a binary that does
not fit in a page.

4. I would like the loader to be written in YAPL, but parts of it
can be hand written assembly if required. The loader must be a
#pragma bootstrap program that can be rebuilt using the existing
tool chain, either compiler or assembler or both.

5. As I mentioned, after the operating system is loaded, the first
page of the operating system must end up being virtual page 0 in
kernel code space because it contains interrupt and exception factors
that are taken from low kernel virtual addresses.

here is some supplementary information:

1. In the SD card file that will be loaded from at runtime, the
binary starts at SD card offset zero (but see below about creating
a mkbootimg tool.) I presume it will be necessary to load the first
sector from the SD card in order to learn the code and data sizes.
If the mapping is set up ahead of time, the problem of reading the
data which is not sector aligned will be simplified. But it would
be OK if you propose a Golang tool that would re-process the operating
system into an SD card file and re-format the layout so that it was
easier to load. E.g. mkbootimage wut4.out whch would produce
wut4.bootimg.

2. I think the loader needs to handle the possibility of an OS
static data segment. The OS will likely need some static strings.

3.  The loader can begin allocating physical page frames at 2,
skipping the loader's two frames. The OS can worry about reclaiming
physical page frames zero and one later.

I had thought the loader would need to copy itself in order two of
three up pages zero and one.  But in an earlier interaction you
suggested this solution: "The loader doesn't need to copy itself.
Instead, it writes a tiny (4-instruction) position-independent
trampoline into a scratch physical page, mapped to kernel code page
1. It finishes loading, jumps to the trampoline, and the trampoline
remaps kernel code page 0 to the OS's first physical page and then
jis to virtual address 0. This is necessary because the arch doc
warns against remapping the currently-executing code page — we can't
safely execute anything after the remap, so it must happen in page
1."

---End of supplementary information---

Do you think you can write a program that meets all these constraints?
I have an alternative approach (adding a feature to the emulator)
that would be a lot of work but could become a fallback solution.
